ICEYE Leave Policy
Last updated: January 2026

---

ANNUAL LEAVE

Full-time employees are entitled to 25 days of paid annual leave per calendar year.
Part-time employees receive leave on a pro-rata basis.
Annual leave accrues from the first day of employment.
Unused leave can be carried over to the following year, up to a maximum of 10 days.
Carried-over leave must be used by March 31 of the following year or it will be forfeited.
Employees should request annual leave at least 2 weeks in advance using the HR portal.
Leave requests are subject to manager approval based on team availability.

---

SICK LEAVE

Employees are entitled to 10 days of paid sick leave per calendar year.
Sick leave does not carry over to the following year.
For absences longer than 3 consecutive days, a medical certificate is required.
Employees should notify their manager as early as possible on the first day of absence.
Sick leave cannot be used as additional annual leave.

---

PARENTAL LEAVE

Primary caregiver leave: 6 months of fully paid parental leave.
Secondary caregiver leave: 4 weeks of fully paid parental leave.
Parental leave can begin up to 4 weeks before the expected due date.
Employees must notify HR at least 8 weeks before the intended start of parental leave.
Upon return from parental leave, employees are guaranteed their same or equivalent role.
Parental leave applies to birth, adoption, and surrogacy.

---

PUBLIC HOLIDAYS

ICEYE observes all Finnish public holidays.
Employees working on a public holiday will receive a substitute day off.
The substitute day must be taken within 3 months of the public holiday worked.

---

UNPAID LEAVE

Employees may request unpaid leave for personal reasons after exhausting paid leave entitlements.
Unpaid leave requests must be approved by both the direct manager and HR.
Unpaid leave of more than 4 weeks requires a written agreement.

---

BEREAVEMENT LEAVE

Employees are entitled to 5 days of paid bereavement leave for the loss of an immediate family member (spouse, child, parent, sibling).
3 days of paid bereavement leave for other close relatives (grandparent, in-law).
Additional unpaid leave may be granted at manager discretion.

---

STUDY LEAVE

Employees pursuing a degree or professional certification relevant to their role may apply for up to 5 days of paid study leave per year.
Study leave must be approved by HR and the direct manager at least 4 weeks in advance.

---

HOW TO APPLY FOR LEAVE

All leave requests must be submitted through the ICEYE HR portal at hr.iceye.fi.
Annual leave: minimum 2 weeks notice.
Sick leave: notify manager on day one, submit through portal upon return.
Parental leave: minimum 8 weeks notice.
For urgent or exceptional circumstances, contact HR directly at hr@iceye.fi.
